---
id: client-connecting-user
title: Connecting the User
sidebar_position: 3
---

The next step is connecting the user. A valid `StreamChat` token is all you need to properly set your current app user as the current user of `ChatClient`. Because you must use your `API_SECRET` to create this token, it is unsafe to generate this token outside of a secure server.

```kotlin
val user = User(
    id = "bender",
    extraData = mutableMapOf(
        "name" to "Bender",
        "image" to "https://bit.ly/321RmWb",
    ),
)

ChatClient.instance().connectUser(user = user, token = "userToken")
    .enqueue { result ->
        if (result.isSuccess) {
            // Handle success
        } else {
            // Handle error
    }
}
```

## Using Chat without a token provider endpoint
If you don't have a token provider endpoint available yet, there are two options available to continue development and testing:

- [Disable token authentication while in development](#Development-Token-Mode)
- [Manually generate a user token](#Manually-Generate-a-User-Token)

### Disabling Token Auth
For development applications, you can disable token authentication checks in the [Dashboard](https://getstream.io/dashboard). This will let you generate tokens using the `ChatClient` without needing a token provider endpoint. 

To disable auth checks, navigage to the [Dashboard](https://getstream.io/dashboard) and complete the following steps:

1. Select your App.
1. Select Chat -> Chat Overview.
1. Scroll to the Authentication section.
1. Toggle *Disable Auth Checks*

<!-- warning -->
Never disable Auth Checks in a production application. Auth checks are an important part of security for a production application and should only be done for proofs-of-concept and applications in the early development stage.
<!-- /warning -->

```kotlin
val user = User( 
    id = "bender", 
    extraData = mutableMapOf( 
        "name" to "Bender", 
        "image" to "https://bit.ly/321RmWb", 
    ), 
) 
val token = ChatClient.devToken(user.id) 
 
ChatClient.connectUser(user, token).enqueue { /* ... */ } 

```
### Manually generating a user token
You can manually create a valid user token with our [JWT generator](https://getstream.io/chat/docs/android/token_generator/?language=kotlin).

1. Copy your `API_SECRET` from the [Dashboard](https://getstream.io/dashboard).
1. Open the JWT Generator.
1. Enter your `API_SECRET`, a `User ID`, and set an expiration time.
1. Copy the token generated by the app.
